So let's create a custom H to the p hook which handles all this data passing response status code checking
and state management logic so that we just have a function let's say which we can call which then sends
our request and which then updates all that state behind the scenes automatically for that and hooks
folder in our shared folder.
I'll add a new file and that is the H the p dash hook J.S. file which should have this H if you hook
I want to create.
So in there I will export a function.
Use h to be client sounds like a fitting name to me.
And this function year will then well do all that stuff we do manually in each component behind the
scenes for us.
Now it should be named use something to fulfill this rule of hooks using use at the beginning and we
now need to import some things from react of course we'll definitely use state because we need to manage
the loading and error state here so that in the components that use our custom hook we got that state
managed automatically.
Now what do we want to do inside of this use HDD to be client hook.
Now I would say we certainly want to manage our loading and our estate in there.
So when I copy that and move that into my HP hook then in here I want to have a function maybe rename
it send request because that is what I want to do there.
Which in the end should do just added.
It should send the request.
Now of course this function needs to be configurable.
We need a U R L layer to which we want to send the request the request method which by default could
be get the request data so the body estimate let's maybe name it body day for which by default will
be no headers which by default will be an empty object not now but an empty object that's important
and yep that looks good to me.
Now instead of send request we can then call fetch and send it to a U R L and pass this configuration
object in in this object we want to set the method to the method key we're getting here which is get
by default which is fine if we set it but which could be post and so on and I'll use the shortcut here
where we don't write this but let javascript expand this we want to set the body and our headers with
this we have a reusable function which thus far only wraps fetch though right in the end we just forward
all the parameters here to fetch.
So right now we have no real benefit of using this.
Well for one of course is async function now.
So let's use a wait here and now we can do all that data extraction logic in here.
So if we go back to the off page all that logic we're doing in here where we get the response data and
check the response status code we can do that in here now we extract the response data and then we throw
an error.
If we have a 400 or 500 initial response code.
So now we're doing this in our custom hook and in this function there as well.
Now I will also wrap this now with try catch here of course is that off my hook like this so did in
here I can set my error to error message.
If we got an error I also want to manage the loading stay here of course.
So here before we tried as I will set is loading to true and it will set is loading two faults once
we're done now.
If we stay in the success case so if you make it past does if check.
I just want to return to response data so that the component which uses our hook and uses this function
can handle the data because we need the data in that component.
So here I will return responds data then we could also manage some data as state and here in the U.S.
aid should be client hook but I don't want to do that.
I just want to return it now this hook should return is loading an error and send request so that the
component where we use this hook has access to these pieces of information and to dysfunction.
So in the end here in at the end of my custom hook I will return.
Let's say an array or actually maybe an object and there I want to return is loading and we could write
is loading as loading like this or again use the shortcut.
Return my error and the send request function.
Now one important note about send a request to a wide infinite loops.
I will wrap it with use callback.
So the dysfunction never gets recreate it when the component that uses this hook re renders this function
has no specific dependencies so I add an empty array as a second argument to use callback.
But now we ensure well that this function as I said never gets recreated and we never have inefficient
re render cycles or infinite loops at worst this can now be our agent to be client here one additional
thing I want to add here though is one other function inside of my hook the let's say clear error function
which will call set error and set this to null.
And I want to expose that as well here in the object I return so that the components which use my hook
all that can call this function and now there's one last piece I want to add to this hook which we didn't
really take care about before.
What if our request is on its way and we then switch to page.
Then we would get an error right.
If I safeties for example here I don't use the hook yet but we have our logic and there the same problem
applies and now here I go to all users and authenticate then enter my data here and press this and go
back immediately.
If I would do the super fast and unfortunately here it loads too fast then we might get an error because
we're trying to update our state on a component that's not on the screen anymore in such a case I actually
want to cancel my ongoing HDP request to do that.
I will create a new constant here and a custom hook active HDP request which is an array and which actually
is not an array like this but instead I'll use to use ref hook which is built into react to turn it
into a reference a reference here in the end is just a piece of data which will not change or in this
case which will not be reinitiate lies to win this function runs again.
And this function does run again whenever the component which uses this hook renders.
So now it is will basically stored data across re render cycles.
You could say so I got active HDP requests here and I want to add an active agent if you request.
Once we sent a request so effectively here right after I set is loading to true so before I sent my
request I will create a Agent P A board controller with new a board controller.
This is an API supported in modern browsers and it will add this to my active HP requests so here to
dot current use ref always wraps the data you store in it in an object which has a current property.
So this current property holds does array which doesn't change across re render cycles to this I will
push the board controller I'm not managing this as state for a state react would also manage it to survive
reentry cycles because I don't want to update the UI when I change this data.
This is just some behind the scenes state I am managing here so I'm storing such a board controller
here again a board controller is a functionality built into modern browsers and we can assign an a board
controller to our request basically.
So here when we send the request with fetch we can add a signal property to the configuration object
and point at our created a board.
Controller and there at DOT signal this basically links does a board controller to this request and
now we can use as a board controller to cancel this connect that request for this I will use the use
of fact took here because use effect can not just be used to run some logic whenever a component re
renders but also to clean up or to run some cleanup logic when a component on mounts and for dad lets
say here at the bottom I will use a will call use a fact here and my second argument is an empty array
the first argument is a function and therefore it is only runs when a component mounts.
But in this first function when you return a function so you return a function in this first function
then does return function is executed as a cleanup function before the next time use effect runs again
or also when the component that uses use effect.
So in our case the component that uses our custom hook on mounts.
So in this cleanup function here I can then have a look at my active HBP request.
Dot Kurd property which is an array of our board controllers in the end and then with the for each I
can go through all these abort controllers and on every a board controller I can call a board and a
request to which it is linked will therefore be aborted.
Then and Now that warning which I get here that the value incurred will likely have changed by the time
this cleanup runs.
That is fine for me.
I want it to reflect the latest state so to change state I want to go through all the board controllers
we registered up to this point.
So this is really just some logic added here to make sure that we never continue with a request.
Data is on its way out.
If we then switch away from the component that triggered to request this is our finished HP hook.
Let's now use it in the components we already have.
For example the off component.